Elevator Pitch

I graduated from Boise State with an Engineering degree in 2019. After I graduated I started looking for jobs in the Treasure Valley. 
What I hadn’t fully realized at the time was that a lof of the companies that hired people with my degree offered jobs I wasn’t interested 
in and didn’t want to commit myself to working with them. As I realized that, I continued working at a precious metals company I’d been working 
at since I started college. I received a promotion to a newly created position for me to fill to manage their incoming and outgoing inventory. 
I worked closely with the CEO of the company, primarily because he was the only one who had the knowledge for this position, to create the day-to-day 
expectations for this new role. I worked closely with him and other managers to streamline the process and help make the outgoing inventory meet 
the growing demands on the company. When I was offered the position, I knew I didn’t want to be there very long and that was shared with the CEO 
of the company. He understood and still offered me the position. When the time came, I was ready to train the next person for my position and left 
on great terms. I’d planned on going to grad school in August, but decided the route of academia was not what I wanted. I decided to change my career
choice from Engineering to coding. I made that change because coding still offers me challenges in problem solving and is a much more flexible position 
for me to be in in the Treasure valley. I’m currently taking a coding bootcamp that has provided me with a lot of hands on experience of creating full 
stack applications. One of which I worked with a team to create a site that keeps track of games and allows you to host a game night with friends to 
plan on which games to play… I am passionate about learning new things and look forward to growing as a software developer in your company.


Give me an example of a time you faced a conflict while working on a team. How did you handle that?
Situation: I had an Engineering courses, we had a  senior project that we had to work with a group for the whole year. We had to run tests and understand specific questions directed to us from project sponsors. 
I was in a group of 4, and we had one team member 3 of us were struggling with.
Task: We had to find ways to work with this student who barely had enough motivation to finish the degre. He rarely gave any input into group meetings and never brought research that we had agreed to do before the meetings. 
Action: The 3 of us who were still doing our work had meetings together and with our professor about how to work out our struggles. We had a meeting with the 4th team member about our issues and where we were struggling with him.
Resolution: We explained to him that we needed more from him. We made a team agreement that 

Give me an example of a time when you did not meet a client’s expectation. What happened, and how did you attempt to rectify the situation?
Situation: I worked at a company that was basically online retail. We had a huge influx of orders and had product being shipped out faster than we could get it in.
Task: I had to create an timeline of which orders would be shipped first when we received product, but occasionally would result in having to delay shipment on the larger orders.
Action: I put (internal) notes orders to notate why an order hadn’t shipped yet. However, those weren’t always read by customer service. 
Resolution: On occasion, we could offer customers a free item, expedited shipping when the product arrived, or was able to push their order out sooner due to newly received product.

Tell me about a time you were under a lot of pressure. What was going on, and how did you get through it?
Situation: The company I worked for had a huge influx of orders over a month to 2 month period.
Task: I had to look at multiple reports to determine when items would come in and decide if I could release items when it was time to ship them.
Action: My boss and I worked out a system of how long we could hold certain orders, when we could have other facilities ship for us, and how to manage customer questions about when their orders would ship.
Resolution: I was able to implement an expected shipping time frame for orders and frequently was able to ship out orders before their expected ship dates to to the systems we implemented for me to use.
Tell me about a time you had to be very strategic in order to meet all your top priorities.
Situation: Previous job; 
Task: I was expected to have specific steps done by certain times so I had to create a schedule to help me meet my requirements each day.
Action: I created an expected time of completion of tasks, created a routine to follow to be able to ensure I met my deadlines each day set by me and other departments.
Resolution: This helped to streamline my process and communicate to other departments when I was working with items that only one person could work with at a time.

Tell me about a time when you worked under close supervision or extremely loose supervision. How did you handle that?
Situation: Previous job;
Task: When I started, I was trained in a general manner of how to accomplish what needed to be done. The process initially had a lot of needed supervised attention to ensure it was done in the correct order. 
After initial and intermediate training, I was given more freedom of my schedule to accomplish tasks that needed to be done.
Action: I worked on communicating what I was doing and how I had planned my time more openly in specific group chats. 
Resolution: I made sure to check in with my boss to make sure I was doing what he expected and to communicate any changes/needs in product.

Write out a brief summary of some things you can do to prepare for an
interview or make yourself stand out as a candidate.
RESEARCH! Researching the company and learning the key focus of who they are and what they do is so important. Making a mental list of what they focus on and their core values will help in some of the fi

Practice 2 whiteboard challenges with a peer, write a brief summary about the experience. What challenge, who was your partner, and what do you think you could do better.
I’m so sorry. I didn’t get a chance to practice this. I will be gone Friday for medical things and I had to do a bunch of stuff this week to prep for it. I do plan on doing the whiteboard Wednesdays after the break.


Write down 5 questions you would like to ask an employer at the end of an interview.
What is the day to day expectation of a junior developer?
Why did you choose to work for this company?
What does it take to be successful here?
What have people gone on to do in the company after holding this position?
How fast is the company growing?
